Adding documentation for _list APIs (#8594)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/list/index.md

---
layout: default
title: List API
nav_order: 45
has_children: true
---

# List APIs
**Introduced 2.18**
{: .label .label-purple }

The List API retrieves statistics about indexes and shards in a paginated format. This streamlines the task of processing responses that include many indexes.

The List API supports two operations:

> - [List Indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/list/list-indices/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/list/list-indices/)
```

> - [List Shards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/list/list-shards/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List shards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/list/list-shards/)
```

`help` | Lists the default and other available headers for a given operation.
`h`  |  Limits the output to specific headers.
`format` |  The format in which to return the result. Valid values are `json`, `yaml`, `cbor`, and `smile`.
`s` | Sorts the output by the specified columns.

## Examples

The following examples show how to use the optional query parameters to customize the response of all List APIs.

### Get verbose output

To query indexes and their stats with a verbose output that includes all column headings in the response, use the `v` query parameter, as shown in the following example:

#### Request

```json
GET _list/indices?v
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

```json
health status index           uuid    pri rep  docs.count  docs.deleted
green  open   .kibana_1 - - - -              
yellow open    sample-index-1 - - - -
next_token null
```

### Get all available headers

To see all the available headers, use the `help` parameter with the following syntax:

```json
GET _list/<operation_name>?help
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Request

> The following example List Indices operation returns all the available headers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example list indices operation returns all the available headers:
```

```json
GET _list/indices?help
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

> The following example shows the indexes and their health status in a table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example displays the indexes and their health status in a table:
```

```json
health     | h                              | current health status
status     | s                              | open/close status
index      | i,idx                          | index name
uuid       | id,uuid                        | index uuid
pri        | p,shards.primary,shardsPrimary | number of primary shards
rep        | r,shards.replica,shardsReplica | number of replica shards
docs.count | dc,docsCount                   | available docs
```

### Get a subset of headers

To limit the output to a subset of headers, use the `h` parameter with the following syntax:

```json
GET _list/<operation_name>?h=<header_name_1>,<header_name_2>&v
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> For any operation, you can find out what headers are available using the `help` parameter, and then use the `h` parameter to limit the output to only the headers that you care about. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any operation, you can determine which headers are available by using the `help` parameter and then using the `h` parameter to limit the output to only a subset of headers. 
```

#### Request

> The following example limits indexes in the response to only the index name and health:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example limits the indexes in the response to only the index name and health status headers:
```

> 

Reviewer: Confirm that my changes retain technical accuracy.

```json
GET _list/indices?h=health,index
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Response

```json
green  .kibana_1
yellow sample-index-1
next_token null
```

### Sort by a header

> To sort the output in a single page by a header, use the `s` parameter with the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sort the output on a single page by a header, use the `s` parameter with the following syntax:
```

```json
GET _list/<operation_name>?s=<header_name_1>,<header_name_2>
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Request

> The following example request sorts indexes by health index name:

Reviewer: Assuming "health" should be removed?

> The following example request sorts indexes by health index name:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request sorts indexes by index name:
```

```json
GET _list/indices?s=h,i
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

```json
green sample-index-2
yellow sample-index-1
next_token null
```

> ### Retrieve data in JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Retrieve data in JSON format
```

> ### Retrieve data in JSON format

Reviewer 3: Can we add these examples in individual list-shards and list-indices pages?

Reviewer 2: I think it makes more sense to keep these on the main page, since it these example pertain specifically to Query parameters supported by both endpoints, and means less examples to maintain on the individual pages. However, I can add a link to these examples on both pages.

Author: On this, the only thing is the Key of JSON response changes when moving from _list/indices to _list/shards. Basically, the response would look like:

```
_list/indices

```
```
{"next_token": "", "indices": ["", ""]}
```

```

_list/shards

```

```
{"next_token": "", "shards": ["", ""]}

```

I think the comment from @sumitasr makes sense, and I can revise the PR addressing it. @Naarcha-AWS Would it be okay?

Reviewer 2: Go ahead.

Author: @sumitasr Added. Please check.

By default, List APIs return data in a `text/plain` format. Other supported formats are [YAML](https://yaml.org/), [CBOR](https://cbor.io/), and [Smile](https://github.com/FasterXML/smile-format-specification).

> To retrieve data in JSON format, use the `format=json` parameter with the following syntax:

Reviewer: No syntax follows this. Should this just end in a period if it refers to the following sections?

Reviewer 2: Yes.

> To retrieve data in JSON format, use the `format=json` parameter with the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To retrieve data in the JSON format, use the `format=json` parameter with the following syntax.
```

> If you use the Security plugin, make sure you have the appropriate permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Security plugin, ensure you have the appropriate permissions.
```

{: .note }

#### Request

```json
GET _list/<operation_name>?format=json
```

> {% include copy-curl.html %}

Reviewer 3: Is it required since we have request section on line 161?
